ABSTRACT: 
In this project, our primary objective is to detect early signs of breast cancer by analyzing a breast cancer dataset encompassing various collected characteristics of breast
cancer. We will employ three different machine leaning techniques: the KNN prediction model, logistic regression model, and decision tree model. Each machine learning technique
will be evaluated based on predefined metrics of success in order to determine the most suitable technique for the task.  The four predefined metrics will be sensitivity, 
specificity, accuracy, and precision.


INTRODUCTION:
Breast cancer has always been a growing concern for women in the United States and has continue to impact many woman over the age of 30. Breast cancer is the mutation of 
cells in the breast, causing cells  to grow into large tumors that can travel and cause other tumors in areas such as the arm pit. Even though the survivalability of woman with
breast cancer has increased, an earlier detection of breast cancer would only increase chance of survival.

Cell size and clump thickness are two important features that can provide insights into the nature of breast cancer cells. Generally, larger cell sizes and increased clump 
thickness are associated with malignant or cancerous cells, while smaller cell sizes and lower clump thickness are indicative of benign or non-cancerous cells. 

By analyzing the relationship between cell size and clump thickness in breast cancer data, we can observe patterns and correlations that help in identifying the nature of the 
cells. For example, if we observe a combination of larger cell sizes and higher clump thickness values in a sample, it suggests a higher likelihood of malignant cells. On 
the other hand, smaller cell sizes and lower clump thickness values indicate a higher probability of benign cells.

Machine learning algorithms can leverage these features to learn and classify breast cancer cells into malignant or benign categories. By training a model on a labeled dataset 
that includes cell size and clump thickness information, the model can make predictions on new, unseen data and provide valuable insights into the nature of the breast cancer 
cells under consideration.


DATA:
To ensure replicability and facilitate further research, the dataset that will be used in this project will also be included in the files section of this project. By providing 
access to the dataset, other researchers and practitioners will be able to replicate our experiments, verify our findings, and potentially build upon our work in the field of 
breast cancer detection.

The dataset encompasses 700 records and each record comprising of 11 fields of information. This comprehensive dataset provides significant amount of data to analyze and 
extract insight from, faciliating the exploration and development of models specifically related to breast cancer. 


DEFINITIONS:
KNN prediction model - classification method used to classify an object by their similarity to its nearest combination of variables. This method is often used when a 
classification of an object can not be easily determined by itself. 








RESULTS:
KNN prediction model - The sensitivity of this model is 0.8889. This model will correctly identify a malignant class cell 88.89% of the time of all patients with malignant 
class cancers. In other words, about 12 in 100 patients who have malignant cancer will be incorrectly notified that they have a benign class cancer. 12% of patients would 
expect to be given a incorrect report using this model. This number should be taken seriously because this rate determines if a patient will be able to react in a timely manner
to their results. Patient who has malignant class cancer needs to be notified on time and as soon as possible. 

The specificity of this model is 0.9515. This means that this model will correctly identify a benign class cancer 95.15% of the times given that patients actually cell is a 
benign class cancer. However, even though this number is high, in terms of importance, specificity is not as important as sensitivity; it is not as crucial to notify cancer 
patient that their cancer class is not life threatening than it is to correctly notify a cancer patient that their cancer is life threatening.

Moving on, the accuracy of this model is 0.9325. This means that this model correctly identifies the correct class of cancer 93.25% of the time for all cancer patients. This 
number is high and represent that out of 100 patients, the model will only make 7 bad predictions. This rate represents a realistic prediction of the reliability of the model 
because we do not know if the class of cancer cell is benign or malignant beforehand in a real case.



